This page describes first version of the game. The intent of the fist version
is make the simplest complete game.

# Nomenclature

## Playable Entity

All player controlled objects, like buildings, drones and so on.

# Game Goal

Goal of the game is to build and open Portal. The player who opens Portal first
wins.

# Energy

The game is build around energy production, storage and distribution.

Playable entities can (a subset) of:

* produce electricity at a rate in Watts
* store energy up to a maximum capacity in Joules
* transmit energy up to a maximum rate in Watts up to maximum distance in meters

All playable entities can receive energy.

When there is not enough energy for an entity to do some activity -- for
example manufacture new units, attack an enemy or move -- the activity rate is
limited by available energy influx. Activities which cannot be slowed down are
temporarily stopped completely.

## Energy Usage Prioritization

Energy usage is prioritized when energy production or distribution capacity is
below total needed energy usage. Higher priority usage has to be fully
satisfied before lower priority usage is allowed:

1. unit movement
1. attacking
1. construction
1. battery charging

# Buildings and Units

## Base (building)

* produces energy
* transmits energy
* stores energy
* manufactures
  * Construction Drone
  * Attacker Drone
* attacks with lasers

Base is equipped with laser weapons.

## Portal (building)

Has massive energy storage which needs to be fully charged for the portal to
open.

## Power Hub (building)

Transmits electricity Power Hubs may create a complex network (i.e. might be
chained). They have no energy storage capability.

## Construction Drone (unit)

Can construct and repair all buildings but Base.

## Attacker Drone (unit)

Can attack all enemy buildings and units.
